{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12740\viewh14140\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\'93If you come in from a low angle, the rim\'97from the ball\'92s perspective\'97is a lot smaller,\'94 Allain said. \'93If you come from straight down, it\'92s as big as it can get; it\'92s a circle. That\'92s the big advantage of hitting it off the backboard, it increases that angle. It makes the rim bigger.\'94\
\
McDowell, who also learned the banked free-throw from Moon, concurs. \'93It helps your touch out,\'94 McDowell said. \'93Put it on that square, and it\'92s going to fall right in.\'94\
\
So you can do the pull up three.\
\
Barry nevertheless conceded points to the banked free-throw\'92s credit. The backboard \'93softens\'94 the shot, he said, increasing the likelihood of a friendly roll. \'93If I were playing today, I\'92d do more with the bank shot from the side,\'94 Barry added.\
\
, ie When the ball comes off at a higher angle it will see a bigger basket.\
\
Comment: It's the same concept with a layup.\'a0\'a0 Easier to go off the backboard.\'a0\'a0 You have a wider angle and you can also give it a lighter touch so if it bounces off the rim it's still going to drop in.\'a0 Utilizing the backboard effectively in basketball shooting techniques can significantly enhance a player's scoring ability. The insights provided by Allain, McDowell, and Barry shed light on the nuanced advantages of employing the backboard for various shots, including free throws and layups. Below is a refined exploration of these tips, offering a more detailed understanding of how to leverage the backboard to improve shooting efficiency.\
\
\
\
### Understanding the Physics: Angle and Perception\
\
Allain emphasizes the importance of angle in making a successful shot. From a physics standpoint, a shot's angle dramatically affects the perceived size of the rim from the ball's perspective. Shots taken at a low angle reduce the rim's effective size, making it more challenging to score. Conversely, shots coming in from a higher angle, particularly those utilizing the backboard, see the rim as larger, akin to a circular target. This increased target size is a pivotal advantage, as it enhances the probability of the ball going through the hoop.\
\
### Enhancing Touch with the Backboard\
\
McDowell and Barry highlight the role of the backboard in refining a player's touch. The backboard, particularly the square above the rim, serves as a visual guide for aiming shots. By focusing on hitting this square, players can better control the ball's trajectory, ensuring a soft landing on the rim which increases the chances of the ball dropping through the net. This technique, while aiding in precision, also softens the shot. As Barry notes, utilizing the backboard can lead to a "friendlier" roll, where the ball is more likely to fall in favorably even if it initially contacts the rim.\
\
### The Versatility of Bank Shots\
\
The discussion also extends to the strategic use of bank shots beyond traditional layups or close-range attempts. Barry\'92s willingness to incorporate bank shots from the side in modern play underscores their versatility. This approach not only softens the shot but also allows for creative scoring opportunities from mid-range distances, including banked free-throws.\
\
### Layups: A Fundamental Application\
\
The layup is a quintessential example of the backboard's utility. The same principles of angle and touch apply here, where using the backboard grants a wider angle for the shot and permits a gentler touch. This ensures that even if the ball doesn't go through the net on the first attempt, it has a higher chance of bouncing off the rim and dropping in due to the softer approach facilitated by the backboard.\
\
### Conclusion\
\
In conclusion, mastering the use of the backboard is a crucial skill in basketball that can significantly elevate a player's scoring efficiency. Understanding the physics of angles, enhancing touch, and embracing the versatility of bank shots are key strategies derived from the insights of Allain, McDowell, and Barry. By practicing these techniques, players can optimize their scoring potential, making the most of every shot opportunity.\
\
\
The phrase "softens the shot for a friendly roll" in the context of basketball refers to a technique of making a shot in such a way that the ball, upon hitting the backboard and/or rim, does so with reduced force, which enhances the likelihood of the ball gently rolling into the basket rather than bouncing off.\
\
Here\'92s a breakdown of what this means:\
\
### Softens the Shot\
\
- Controlled Force: Applying just enough power to get the ball to the basket, but not so much that it aggressively bounces off the backboard or rim. This requires a nuanced understanding of touch and control.\
- Arc and Angle: A higher arc and strategic angle can help in reducing the speed of the ball as it approaches the backboard, making the contact less harsh and more controlled.\
- Spin: Imparting a backspin on the ball can also "soften" the shot. The backspin slows down the forward momentum when the ball hits the backboard or rim, which can help in guiding the ball into the net.\
\
### Friendly Roll\
\
- Upon Contact: When a shot is softened, the ball is more likely to gently touch the rim or backboard and then roll around the rim softly before dropping into the basket.\
- Increased Chances: This "friendly" behavior of the ball significantly increases the chances of scoring, as it is less prone to bounce off with force.\
- Psychological Comfort: Players may feel more confident in taking shots, knowing that a softer approach can result in a higher scoring probability even if the shot isn\'92t perfectly aimed.\
\
### Practical Application\
\
In practice, this technique is particularly useful in situations where a direct shot may be too risky due to the angle or distance. Using the backboard as a buffer to "soften" the shot allows players to use it as an ally, expanding the effective scoring area and making the hoop more accessible from a wider range of positions on the court.\
\
Understanding and mastering this concept requires practice and a keen sense of timing, force, and angle. It\'92s a skill that distinguishes seasoned players, especially in high-pressure situations where precision and control are paramount.\
\
}